[OKTA-1204819] OV standalone authenticators (#6337)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/authenticators-okta-verify/main/index.md

title: Okta Verify (Push/OTP) integration guide
---

The expected behavior of Okta Verify is to reflect the context of the original client request when a user receives a push notification. This behavior isn't honored in proxy model architectures. In proxy model architectures, a server-side app using the embedded SDK is used as a proxy between client apps and Okta servers.

The Okta Verify push notification always displays the server's IP address and user agent regardless of any passed-in request context. As a result, Okta Verify is unavailable for server-side apps using the embedded SDK until Okta finds a solution.

> This issue persists regardless of whether you enable the Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue persists regardless of whether you enable Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration.
```

## Configure Okta Verify as standalone authenticators

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" /><ApiLifecycle access="ie" />

> When you enable the Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration feature, `okta_verify_totp`, `okta_verify_push`, and `okta_verify_fastpass` become available as separate authenticator keys, one for each Okta Verify method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration, `okta_verify_totp`, `okta_verify_push`, and `okta_verify_fastpass` become available as separate authenticator keys, one for each Okta Verify method.
```

| Authenticator key      | Method                            |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| `okta_verify_totp`     | Time-based one-time passcode (TOTP) |
| `okta_verify_push`     | Push notification                 |
| `okta_verify_fastpass` | Okta FastPass                          |

Users who already have one of the three Okta Verify methods enrolled continue to have that method enrolled. The method is now represented by the corresponding standalone authenticator. Policies that reference an existing method now reference the corresponding standalone authenticator instead, with no changes required to your policy configuration.

> If your integration or automation creates or updates authenticators or policies using the literal `okta_verify` key, update those requests to use the new key that corresponds to the specific method you want to configure: `okta_verify_totp`, `okta_verify_push`, or `okta_verify_fastpass`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your integration or automation creates or updates authenticators or policies using the literal `okta_verify` key, update those requests to use the new key that corresponds to the specific method that you want to configure: `okta_verify_totp`, `okta_verify_push`, or `okta_verify_fastpass`.
```

If your existing policies reference `okta_verify`, you don't need to update the stored data. When you enable the feature, Okta automatically translates `okta_verify` to the corresponding new key in the response.

#### Okta Verify in authenticator enrollment policies

The following table applies only when the previous `okta_verify` authenticator setting is `REQUIRED` in an authenticator enrollment policy. It shows how the previously enabled Okta Verify methods translate to the new `enroll.self` value for each per-method authenticator:

| Previously enabled Okta Verify methods | `okta_verify_totp` | `okta_verify_push` | `okta_verify_fastpass` |
|---|---|---|---|
| `totp`, `push`, `signed_nonce` | `OPTIONAL` | `OPTIONAL` | `REQUIRED` |
| `totp`, `push` | `OPTIONAL` | `REQUIRED` | `DISABLED` |
| `totp`, `signed_nonce` | `OPTIONAL` | `DISABLED` | `REQUIRED` |
| `totp` | `REQUIRED` | `DISABLED` | `DISABLED` |

For example, the following authenticator enrollment policy configuration has `okta_verify` enabled as a required authenticator:

```json
{ "key": "okta_verify", "enroll": { "self": "REQUIRED" } }
```

> When you enable the Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration feature, that configuration is automatically translated to the following configuration. It has `okta_verify_fastpass` enabled as a required authenticator and the other two methods enabled as optional authenticators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration, Okta automatically converts it to the following configuration. It has `okta_verify_fastpass` enabled as a required authenticator and the other two methods enabled as optional authenticators:
```

```json
"authenticationMethods": [
  { "key": "okta_verify", "method": "totp" },
  { "key": "okta_verify", "method": "signed_nonce" }
]
```

When you enable the Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration feature, that configuration is automatically translated to the following configuration:

```json
"authenticationMethods": [
  { "key": "okta_verify_totp", "method": "totp" },
  { "key": "okta_verify_fastpass", "method": "signed_nonce" }
]
```

#### Okta Verify in Okta account management policy rules

For Okta account management policy rules, Okta converts an Okta Expression Language condition that references `okta_verify` into an equivalent condition that checks all three per-method keys. Because the condition can no longer match on the single `okta_verify` key, Okta joins the three per-method keys with the `||` (OR) operator. The condition evaluates if the authenticator key equals any one of the three per-method keys. 

For example, the following condition references `okta_verify`:

```
accessRequest.authenticator.key == 'okta_verify'
```

> When you enable the Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration feature, that condition is automatically translated to the following condition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable Flexible Okta Verify authenticator configuration, that condition is automatically translated to the following condition:
```
